Add Markdoc to the doc tools (#11782)
readthedocs/readthedocs.org: docs/user/intro/markdoc.rst

Minimal configuration is required to build an existing Markdoc project on Read the Docs.

.. code-block:: yaml
   :caption: .readthedocs.yaml

    version: 2

    build:
        os: ubuntu-24.04
        tools:
            nodejs: "22"
        commands:
            # Install dependencies
            - cd docs/ && npm install
            # Build the site
            - cd docs/ && npm run build
            # Copy generated files into Read the Docs directory
            - mkdir --parents $READTHEDOCS_OUTPUT/html/
            - cp --verbose --recursive docs/out/* $READTHEDOCS_OUTPUT/html/

.. _Markdoc: https://markdoc.io/

Example configuration
---------------------

In order to build a Markdoc project on Read the Docs,
you need to generate static HTML from the Next JS build:

.. code-block:: js
   :caption: next.config.js

    const withMarkdoc = require('@markdoc/next.js');

    const nextConfig = {
        // Optional: Export HTML files instead of a Node.js server
        output: 'export',

        // Optional: Change links `/me` -> `/me/` and emit `/me.html` -> `/me/index.html`
        trailingSlash: true,

>         // TODO: Make this dynamic with the Read the Docs base path,

Author: ```suggestion
        
        // TODO: Make this dynamic with the Read the Docs base path,
```

>         // Use the proper base path for prod and PR builds.
>         basePath: process.env.READTHEDOCS_CANONICAL_URL || '',```

Author: ```suggestion
    // Use Canonical URL, but only the path and with no trailing /
    basePath: process.env.READTHEDOCS_CANONICAL_URL
      ? new URL(process.env.READTHEDOCS_CANONICAL_URL).pathname.replace(/\/$/, "")
      : "",
```

Minimal configuration is required to build an existing Markdoc project on Read the Docs.

.. code-block:: yaml
   :caption: .readthedocs.yaml

    version: 2

    build:
        os: ubuntu-24.04
        tools:
            nodejs: "22"
        commands:
            # Install dependencies
            - cd docs/ && npm install
            # Build the site
            - cd docs/ && npm run build
            # Copy generated files into Read the Docs directory
            - mkdir --parents $READTHEDOCS_OUTPUT/html/
            - cp --verbose --recursive docs/out/* $READTHEDOCS_OUTPUT/html/

.. _Markdoc: https://markdoc.io/

Example configuration
---------------------

In order to build a Markdoc project on Read the Docs,
you need to generate static HTML from the Next JS build:

.. code-block:: js
   :caption: next.config.js

    const withMarkdoc = require('@markdoc/next.js');

    const nextConfig = {
        // Optional: Export HTML files instead of a Node.js server
        output: 'export',

        // Optional: Change links `/me` -> `/me/` and emit `/me.html` -> `/me/index.html`
        trailingSlash: true,
        

>         // TODO: Make this dynamic with the Read the Docs base path,
>         // so PR builds work nicely

Author: ```suggestion
        // Use the proper base path for prod and PR builds.
```

Minimal configuration is required to build an existing Markdoc project on Read the Docs.

.. code-block:: yaml
   :caption: .readthedocs.yaml

    version: 2

    build:
        os: ubuntu-24.04
        tools:
            nodejs: "22"
        commands:
            # Install dependencies
            - cd docs/ && npm install
            # Build the site
            - cd docs/ && npm run build
            # Copy generated files into Read the Docs directory
            - mkdir --parents $READTHEDOCS_OUTPUT/html/
            - cp --verbose --recursive docs/out/* $READTHEDOCS_OUTPUT/html/

.. _Markdoc: https://markdoc.io/

Example configuration
---------------------

In order to build a Markdoc project on Read the Docs,
you need to generate static HTML from the Next JS build:

.. code-block:: js
   :caption: next.config.js

    const withMarkdoc = require('@markdoc/next.js');

    const nextConfig = {
        // Optional: Export HTML files instead of a Node.js server
        output: 'export',

        // Optional: Change links `/me` -> `/me/` and emit `/me.html` -> `/me/index.html`
        trailingSlash: true,

> 
>         // Ensure pages have relative asset URLs
>         assetPrefix: './',
> 
>         // Ensure links are relative

Author: ```suggestion

```

        // TODO: Make this dynamic with the Read the Docs base path,
        // so PR builds work nicely

>         basePath: '/en/markdoc',

Author: Yea, I just wasn't sure how to do it in JS, so I put the TODO 😆

>         // TODO: Make this dynamic with the Read the Docs base path,
>         // so PR builds work nicely
>         basePath: '/en/markdoc',

Author: ```suggestion
        // TODO: Make this dynamic with the Read the Docs base path,
        // so PR builds work nicely
        basePath: process.env.READTHEDOCS_CANONICAL_URL || '',```

Minimal configuration is required to build an existing Markdoc project on Read the Docs.

.. code-block:: yaml
   :caption: .readthedocs.yaml

    version: 2

    build:
        os: ubuntu-24.04
        tools:
            nodejs: "22"
        commands:
            # Install dependencies
            - cd docs/ && npm install
            # Build the site
            - cd docs/ && npm run build
            # Copy generated files into Read the Docs directory
            - mkdir --parents $READTHEDOCS_OUTPUT/html/
            - cp --verbose --recursive docs/out/* $READTHEDOCS_OUTPUT/html/

.. _Markdoc: https://markdoc.io/

Example configuration
---------------------

In order to build a Markdoc project on Read the Docs,
you need to generate static HTML from the Next JS build:

.. code-block:: js
   :caption: next.config.js

    const withMarkdoc = require('@markdoc/next.js');

    const nextConfig = {
        // Optional: Export HTML files instead of a Node.js server
        output: 'export',

        // Optional: Change links `/me` -> `/me/` and emit `/me.html` -> `/me/index.html`
        trailingSlash: true,

>         // Use Canonical URL, but only the path and with no trailing /

Reviewer: Can you put a comment here of the resulting value we are using for basePath?

        basePath: process.env.READTHEDOCS_CANONICAL_URL
          ? new URL(process.env.READTHEDOCS_CANONICAL_URL).pathname.replace(/\/$/, "")
          : "",
    }

    module.exports =
        withMarkdoc({mode: 'static'})({
            pageExtensions: ['js', 'jsx', 'ts', 'tsx', 'md', 'mdoc'],
            ...nextConfig,
    });

> Supported Features

Reviewer: As I mentioned in the docusaurus PR, I don't think we need to communicate these limitations here. We support all the features for all the documentation tools -- except for those that don't output HTML files (eg. SPA): search and filetreediff.

            ...nextConfig,
    });

> Supported Features

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Supported features
```

------------------

> .. csv-table:: Supported Features

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. csv-table:: Supported features
```

   :header: "Feature", "Description", "Supported"

   "Pull request previews", "Preview changes to your documentation before merging.", "✅"
   "Versioning", "Supports multiple versions of your documentation.", "✅"
   "Search", "Provides full-text search capabilities.", "✅"
   "Flyout menu", "Provides a flyout menu for navigation.", "✅"

>    "Offline formats", "Generates PDF and ePub formats.", "❌"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   "Offline formats", "Generates PDF and EPUB formats.", "❌"
```
